Between 1590 and 1595 Mughal artists Mohesh and Kesav created this painting, Emperor Akbar hunting wild asses.
He is instructed by higher powers to “protect his holy person and be more careful in guarding it.”
The moment in which Akbar collapses portrays inner-retrospect and enlightenment.
The buildings in the background are the beautiful village of Harhari.
As illustrated in the Akbarnama the central figure, Akbar, travels on foot with a group of scouts until they come across a large herd of asses.
They see the wild game laying dead on the ground and Akbar motionless under a tree.
Akbar is depicted in this painting in a moment of weakness and exhaustion.
The scouts frantically try to think of ways to bring the Emperor water.
They decide to send some water carriers back through the desert to retrieve water in Harhari.
In the distance of this painting the water carriers are seen
The Mughal Emperor Akbar encouraged narrative art forms in the Mughal Period.